As the new leader of your group,
you will likely have to interview candidates to join your team.
They may come from other departments in your company or outside of your company,
so continuing with our theme of this course,
you are now responsible to maintain and build your team.
Let's face it.
Knowing how to interview can be a challenge.
Conducting an interview isn't always fun and it doesn't
come all that naturally to many people.
Why?
Well,
most interviewers are unprepared with the appropriate interview questions or
find it challenging to fill the void that often results when two people just
sit together in a room for the first time.
In fact, many team leaders feel uncomfortable interviewing and hiring, period.
Nonetheless,
you will need to build your skills so you can build a quality team
and further your own and your team's success.
It is very important to get the right people for the job,
so let's see how you can improve your interviewing process,
which will result in building a better and stronger team.
The interview is a conversation or conversations between a
job applicant and a representative of the employee and
organization and in this case, well, it's you.
A job interview is only a part of the employment screening process.
Now, that process is how you filter down from many candidates to just one,
which becomes the new hire.
Interviews are the most popularly used methods for
employee selection and of course,
interviews primarily are verbal and interpersonal discussions.
So that's why it's so important that you need to refine those skills.
Now, let's check out the benefits of having you involved in this process.
So what are the benefits of learning and improving your interviewing skills?
Well, let's check them out.
You have been tasked to build your team.
How can you build a great team if you don't have a process
and approach for interviewing or hiring.
You need to be part of the process as well.
Who else really knows who you really need for the job?
HR?
I doubt it.
They may have some basic or general criteria,
like a candidate must have a 4-year degree,
for example, but they will likely not know that you need Angular,
JavaScript, and Bootstrap skills as well.
You want to really be sure the new person meets your
requirements and what are your requirements?
Well, I will help you articulate them on the following slides.
You want to build your interviewing skills.
If you are not good at interviewing, you will not be good at hiring and in fact,
may hire the wrong people more often than not.
That's why it's so important to your success.
Here's a tip.
The more you perform interviews,
the better you will be at being interviewed yourself.
Hey, someday you may be on the other side of the interviewing process. Alright, now let's look at the process step by step on the following slides.